Vaccination and viral load (#1049)
greenelab/covid19-review: content/23.vaccines-app.md

Importantly, the vaccine candidate also shows significant clinical efficacy against the prevalent UK and South African variants.
The company has also initiated the development of new constructs to select candidates that can be used as a booster against new strains and plans to initiate clinical trials for these new constructs in the second quarter of 2021.

### SARS-CoV-2 Evolution and Vaccine Efficacy

#### Delta Variant and C~t~

> One preprint [@doi:10.1101/2021.07.28.21261295] analyzed a retrospective cohort of patients in Singapore who contracted COVID-19 in April to June of 2021, focusing on those who were confirmed or inferred to have been infected by the Delta variant of concern and aiming to analyze virological kinetics.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
One preprint [@doi:10.1101/2021.07.28.21261295] analyzed a retrospective cohort of patients in Singapore who contracted COVID-19 from April to June of 2021.  

This study focused on those who were confirmed or inferred to have been infected by the Delta variant of concern and its aim was to analyze virological kinetics.
```

Unvaccinated patients were more likely to be symptomatic or to progress to severe COVID-19 and showed more symptoms than vaccinated patients, despite the higher age of the vaccinated cohort.
C~t~ was assessed over disease course, although the specific procedures for when additional RT-PCR was conducted is not clear; however, it is stated that the data was smoothed based on day of illness.
There was no significant difference in median C~t~ in the initial samples taken from fully vaccinated and unvaccinated patients, but C~t~ increased (signifying reduced viral load)  more rapidly in fully vaccinated patients.
Like most analyses analyzing C~t~ [@individual-pathogenesis], this study does not provide the data to make conclusions about contagiousness, as the samples were not cultured.
All the same, these findings do suggest that vaccinated individuals may be able to clear the infection more quickly.

A second analysis was based in a county of Wisconsin, USA during summer 2021, when the Delta variant was known to be the dominant variant in the region [@doi:10.1101/2021.07.31.21261387].

> According to Our World in Data, at the beginning of the study, 49.3% of residents of Dane County were fully vaccinated, with this number rising to 51.4% by the end of the study <!--To do: cite OWID-->, although the preprint reports the vaccination rate in Dane County as 67.4%.

Reviewer: Interesting. reporting delay discrepancy?

Reviewer: Weird... its a fluid situation though so I guess that can be expected
